Let's work on that action button you find at the bottom of each box.
Right now, it's a regular button with the default styles assigned to it by the browser,
I want to change that and for that, we could of course use the button selector but we might have multiple
buttons on the page and maybe we don't want to use the same style for all buttons necessarily.
So what I'll do is, I'll add a class but I'll just call that class button,
this allows me to still set up a generic button class or button style which I can easily attach to any button
I have
but if I ever have another button on the page which I want to have a different style, I just don't need
to attach it
and we don't have to worry about possibly getting into conflicts where we then need to overwrite properties
just because we want to go back to the defaults or anything like that.
So I'll grab that button class assignment and add it to all the three buttons
and now with that, we can go back to the stylesheet and work on the buttons.
I'll add the button styles at the bottom of our plan section
and as I said, I will set up a generic button style for the button class.
So let's use the button selector and let's start by adding a background color.
Here I want to use the dark green for all the buttons on the page,
I also want to give them a white text like this.
If we now save this and we go back and reload, we can see that
but we also see that the button has some strange differences.
Let's inspect it in the developer tools.
There we can see our
button style is applied of course but if we scroll down, we see there are a couple of the default styles
set up, like a border which is by default added, some default padding
and if we go down a bit further, we also see that there are a lot of other defaults when it comes to
the text of the button.
That's why the font here and the text in general doesn't really look like the text on the rest of our
page,
maybe that's the style you want but I don't want it here.
It does of course inherit the font family from our body but as you can see, this is actually overwritten
because inheritance is always overwritten by direct style assignments and the direct style assignment
we're getting is the font assigned here,
the font assigned by the browser.
So this is something I want to change
and for that, what we can do is we can add the font property and we could set the font family but then
we would keep the other overwritten font values,
so I will target the overall font property which is also just a shortened for setting a couple of text
properties in one step
and I will set it to inherit.
Do you remember inherit? Inherit was a keyword, a value which forces the inherited styles to be applied.
So instead of using the browser defaults, it now will actually prioritize inheritance,
though technically that's not what happens,
it just looks at what it would have inherited and directly assigns these styles
so that we actually use the font family and the font defaults
we have on our page and we set up in our body. So with that if we save this and we now reload, you'll see the
button changed.
It increased in size because the text size was also overwritten by the browser defaults
and now it looks more like the rest of our content which I personally prefer.
Now I also want to get rid of that border,
so for that
button I'll also assign the border with the shortened property, set a 1 pixel or maybe a 1 pixel border
here or 1.5 maybe, 1.5 pixels solid and then also of that dark green, so we could also set it to none since
you won't see it,
the background has the same color and I also want to overwrite the default padding and set it to 8 pixels
in all directions.
Now finally and that's of course up to you,
I want to add rounded corners, of course as always feel free to pause video and do it on your own,
we can use border radius for it and I will set it to 8 pixels too.
Now if we save that and we reload the page, now that button looks more like the way I want it to look.
One thing you'll notice though is that if you hover over it, you've got no indication that it's a button.
You don't get that hand cursor
and you also get no different hover style.
So these are further things I want to add.
I also want to change one thing about the text,
I want to set the font weight to bold
but now for that cursor. I want to set the cursor and you can set it with the cursor property to pointer,
the default is default.
That's the normal cursor icon but with pointer, you get that hand icon whenever your cursor is over
the button, is hovering over the button.
So now you see, the cursor changes here and the cursor property has more than default and pointer, you
can of course as for all the properties
always see this on MDN or in your IDE if it supports that autocompletion like mine does,
common values are default and pointer though. So with that, you can of course apply this to any element, not
just buttons or links, you can add it to any element, you can indicate to the user that something is clickable.
Now the hover effect was another thing that was missing,
so let's add a hover effect.
Do you remember how that works?
Yes,
you use the hover pseudo class
and let's also add the active pseudo class to change the style when we're holding the mouse pressed
down
and there I want to set the background color to white and now the text color to the dark green,
so I will reverse the styles. With that if we reload and hover over the button,
that looks much more clickable now.
Now one final thing I want to do,
the button doesn't do anything right now and
that will change over this course but I don't like this blue outline we have here.
So let's get rid of that in the next lecture
and let's also understand what an outline actually is.